Types of Membership, Privileges and Fees
Library membership lets you borrow items at any of the public libraries, gives you access to a wide range of eBooks and online resources, and much more. Explore the different membership types, privileges and applicable fees.
 
Basic Membership (Singaporeans)
All Singaporeans can register for Basic Membership. It is free.
You can borrow up to 16 physical items, and 16 eBooks (including eAudiobooks) for 21 days.
If you wish to extend the due date of your borrowed items for another 21 days, you can renew your loans.
Please refer to Manage My Loans.

 
Basic Membership - Permanent Residents
Permanent residents can apply for a Basic Membership with a one-time registration fee of $10.69 (GST-inclusive). If you are PAssion card holder, you can apply for Partner Membership to enjoy the benefit of no registration fee imposed. This benefit is also applicable for Permanent Residents who are MOE students below 21 years old at the point of registration.
You can borrow up to 16 physical items, and 16 eBooks (including eAudiobooks) for 21 days.
If you wish to extend the due date of your borrowed items for another 21 days , you can renew your loans. Please refer to Manage My Loans.

 
Basic Membership – Foreigner
Foreigners can apply for a Basic Membership with a one-time registration fee of $10.69 (GST-inclusive) and an annual fee of $43.60 (GST-inclusive).
Foreigners who are students at the schools under the Singapore Ministry of Education (primary schools, secondary schools, junior colleges, Institutes of Technical Education, polytechnics) can apply for a Basic Membership for free. You must be aged below 21, at the point of registration and produce your MOE smartcard for staff to assist you with the registration.
You can borrow up to 16 physical items, and 16 eBooks (including eAudiobooks) for 21 days. If you wish to extend the due date of your borrowed items for another 21 days , you can renew your loans
 

 
Accessible Membership
Accessible Membership provides an expanded scope of library services across all libraries for persons with disabilities, on top of basic library membership privileges.
Accessible Membership is open to persons with disabilities who are beneficiaries of eligible disability schemes and services funded by the Ministry of Social and Family Development (MSF), or who had attended or are currently attending government-funded Special Education (SPED) schools.
If you are not a beneficiary of existing disability schemes and services, you may wish to visit the Enabling Guide website for more information on disability support schemes and services.
Accessible Membership is a lifetime membership. Accessible Members enjoy:
a) A longer borrowing period (from 21 days to 42 days);
b) A longer renewal period (from 21 days to 42 days);
c) Free reservation of eligible lending items [which costs $1.58(GST-inclusive) per item];
d) Priority access to accessible features in Punggol Regional Library.
To apply for Accessible Membership, log on to your myLibrary account (click on "Accessible Membership" under "Profile Settings") on the NLB website.
If you have other queries on your Accessible Membership application, please contact us via our Feedback Form.

 
Partner Membership (PAssion Card holders)
PAssion card holders who are library members are eligible to upgrade to NLB Partner Membership to enjoy increased loan privileges. Partner Members may borrow up to 24 physical items, and 16 eBooks (including eAudiobooks) for 21 days, and renew the loan(s) for another 21 days.
•	Singaporeans and PRs who are library members enjoy free upgrade to NLB Partner Membership after a valid login here.
•	Foreigners who are library members may register as a Partner Member for free within the valid period of their annual library membership subscription.
PAssion card holders who are not library members may login with their SingPass to register for both the NLB Basic Membership and Partner Membership. 
•	NLB Basic Membership is free for Singaporeans and PRs. A one-time registration fee of $10.69 (GST-inclusive) will be waived for PRs with a valid PAssion Card.
•	Foreigners may register as a Partner Member by paying the annual Basic Membership fee of $43.60 (GST-inclusive). A one-time registration fee of $10.69 (GST-inclusive) will be waived for Foreigners with a valid PAssion Card. To register, patrons may approach a staff member at any public library (except library@chinatown). Check the membership guide to find out the documents needed, in addition to a valid PAssion card.
Upon expiry of their NLB Partner Membership, membership will be reverted to basic membership privileges as long as they have a valid library membership.
For upgrade requests or new registrations that are not successful via the online platform, please seek assistance from 11am - 6pm at any public library (except library@chinatown and The LLibrary) by producing a valid PAssion card with proof of expiry. 







What you can Borrow and Reserve

Loan Quota based on Membership Types
Basic Membership (Singaporeans, Permanent Residents, and Foreigners)
Physical Loan Items: 16 items
eBooks (including eAudiobooks): 16 items
 

Accessible Membership
For persons with disabilities who are beneficiaries of eligible disability schemes and services funded by the Ministry of Social and Family Development (MSF), or who had attended or are currently attending government-funded Special Education (SPED) schools
Physical Loan Items: 16 items
eBooks (including eAudiobooks): 16 items
Please see more info on Accessible Membership here.

Partner Membership
Only for registered PAssion Card holders
Physical Loan Items: 24 items
eBooks (including eAudiobooks): 16 items

Resources available for loan and reservation
Books, audio-visual materials, music scores, magazines, eBooks (including eAudiobooks)

Books
Loan Period: 21 Days
Renewal: 21 days (only if the item has not been reserved and is not overdue )
 
eBooks
Loan Period: 21 Days
Renewal: 21 days(can be renewed only during the last three days of the loan period and if the item has not been reserved)
 

Audio-Visual Materials
Loan Period: 21 Days
Renewal: no renewal
 

Music Scores
Loan Period: 21 Days
Renewal: 21 days (only if the item has not been reserved and is not overdue)


How to reserve Library Materials
Reserving materials from libraries
Reserve books/magazines/audiovisual materials with your myLibrary account through the Online Catalogue, NLB Mobile app or the catalogue stations in the libraries.

Reservation fee is S$1.58 (GST-inclusive) per item (not applicable for members with Accessible Membership). eBook, eMagazines and eAudiobook reservations are free.

 
Collecting reservations
When a reservation item is allocated to you, you will be notified by email or through the NLB Mobile app. You must collect the reservation(s) within 5 days of the notification.
 
More on loan privileges here. 

Important Information

Please pay any outstanding charges before collecting your reservation(s).
You will still need to pay the reservation fee(s) for uncollected reservations.
You may cancel a reservation if it has not been allocated.
Reservations will expire if unfulfilled after 180 days. You will be informed via email and the NLB Mobile app.
More on the NLB Mobile app here.

 
Repository Used Reference (RUR) Materials
Repository Used Reference materials (marked ‘RUR’ in our catalogue) comprise older editions and less frequently-used titles from our collections which are not housed within the library. But you can make a reservation to view them at the Lee Kong Chian Reference Library.


How to Reserve RUR Materials
Place a reservation online via the Catalogue at http://catalogue.nlb.gov.sg.

The reservation fee is $1.58 (GST-inclusive) per item.
Please ensure your contact details in your library account are updated.

 
How to Collect Your Requested RUR Materials
You will be notified via the NLB Mobile app once the materials are ready.

You must enable your mobile notification both in the NLB Mobile app as well as your devices to receive the push notifications via the app.

Find out more about the NLB Mobile app here.

 
Important

Consultation of the materials is restricted to within the library and only for a period of 21 days.
The materials cannot be taken out of the library.
The materials must be returned at the counter before the library closes each day.

How to use our eBooks and other digital resources
Borrow ebooks and audiobooks
https://mobileapp.nlb.gov.sg/get-started-with/libby/

Read eNewspapers and eMagazines 
https://mobileapp.nlb.gov.sg/get-started-with/enews/

Use our eLearning resources
https://mobileapp.nlb.gov.sg/get-started-with/learn/

Use Hyread for reading Chinese ebooks 
https://mobileapp.nlb.gov.sg/get-started-with/hyread/

Use Naxos Music Library
https://eresources.nlb.gov.sg/main/Help/NML
